---
title: Welcome to this Github hosted site
longtitle: |
    <p>WELCOME <i>to this</i></p>
    <p>GITHUB HOSTED SITE</p>
date: 2021-02-28
layout: post
category: Setting everything up
---

You should have received an email inviting you to collaborate on Github with me on the "repository" (read: project) for this site: bennotkin/witziggy-world. Go ahead and accept the invitation so you have can add and edit posts.

## 1. Setting up Github
Go ahead and download [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com) (or you can use the command line – if you'd prefer that route let me know). This will give you a graphical user interface to upload and manage your files/posts. You'll need to add your github username and email address.

You may also want to download [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (or other) as a text editor. You can also just use macOS's TextEdit but VS Code has some helpful features, like showing all the files in a folder from within the text editor.

Once you're logged in to Github Desktop you should see your repositories, including `witziggy-world`. Following the on screen directions, choose to save the repository on your computer. You won't need to touch most of the files in this repository but you need to have them on your computer so you can add new ones. 

Now you have a version of the website on your computer. The site isn't hosted on your computer, but your computer has a mirrored copy of the files. To add (or remove) anything to the website you'll first add them to this directory. Later you will "push" this directory online.

### How does Github work?
We don't need to understand much about Github and Git to use it as free hosting for this project, but a little bit of knowledge is helpful. First, Github is an organization and platform, and Git is technology/program – okay, tbh I don't really know what to call Git, but it's a tool that allows people to work together on a project and track versions of the project.

There are much better explanations online, but Git is a system of "forks" and "branches". (Sorry if you already know all this! And sorry*2 if I'm getting it wrong.) You begin with a main (or master) branch, which is basically the most official version of the project. People make branches – essentially linked copies – of this main branch to work on. When people are happy with the changes they've made to the branch, they can merge the changes into the main branch.

On your computer you have a "branch"